<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdex.dtd" [
<!ENTITY Craig.Drummond.mail "<email>craig.p.drummond@gmail.com</email>">
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<article lang="&language;">
 <articleinfo>
  <title>Cantata Handbook</title>
   <authorgroup>
    <author>&Craig.Drummond; &Craig.Drummond.mail;</author>
    <!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
   </authorgroup>
   <date>2012-02-17</date>
   <releaseinfo>0.5.0</releaseinfo>
   <keywordset>
    <keyword>KDE</keyword>
    <keyword>MPD</keyword>
    <keyword>Multimedia</keyword>
   </keywordset>

   <!-- Put here the FDL notice.  Read the explanation in fdl-notice.docbook
     and in the FDL itself on how to use it.
   <legalnotice>&FDLNotice;</legalnotice>
   -->
  </articleinfo>
 <sect1 id="introduction">
  <title>Introduction</title>
  <para>Cantata is a client for Music Player Daemon (MPD). In order for Cantata to function, yu must already have configured, and started, MPD.</para>
 </sect1>

 <sect1 id="configuration">
  <title>Configuration</title>
  <sect2 id="server">
   <title>Server</title>
   <para>Configure connection to MPD.
    <orderedlist>
     <listitem><para><quote>Host (or local socket)</quote> Enter either the IP address (e.g. 127.0.0.1), hostname (e.g. localhost), or path to MPD's socket file (e.g. /var/run/mpd/socket)</para></listitem>
     <listitem><para><quote>Port</quote> If the host (above) is either a IP address or hostname, then enter MPD's port number.</para></listitem>
     <listitem><para><quote>Password</quote> If access to MPD is secured with a password enter this here. The password will be stored within your KDE wallet.</para></listitem>
     <listitem><para><quote>Music folder</quote> If you are running MPD on your local machine, then you can enter the path to where MPD's music files are stored. This can then be used to store (and retrieve) cover art, as well as allowing features such as mdedia player device sync, tag editing, etc.</para></listitem>
    </orderedlist>
   </para>
  </sect2>

  <sect2 id="playback">
   <title>Playback</title>
   <para>Options that control music playback.
   <orderedlist>
     <listitem><para><quote>Crossfading</quote> Configure the overlap</para></listitem>
     <listitem><para><quote>Replay gain</quote> Controls how MPD should handle replaygain tags that may be in your music files.</para>
        <itemizedlist>
        <listitem><para><quote>None</quote> Ignore tags</para></listitem>
        <listitem><para><quote>Track</quote> Use the per-track replaygain tag.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem><para><quote>Album</quote> Use the album replaygain tag.</para></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
     </listitem>
     <listitem><para><quote>Fadeout on stop</quote> If enabled, Cantata will slowly fade the volume of the playing track on stop.</para></listitem>
     <listitem><para><quote>Stop playback on exit</quote> Cantata only controls MPD, it is MPD itself that plays your music. Therefore, when Cantata exits, your music will still be playing. If you enable <quote>Stop playback on exit</quote>, then Cantata when cantata is exited it will instruct MPD to stop playing.</para></listitem>
    </orderedlist>
    </para>
  </sect2>

  <sect2 id="output">
   <title>Output</title>
   <para>This section lists MPD's configured output devices, allowing you to control which ones are enabled.</para>
  </sect2>

  <sect2 id="interface">
   <title>Interface</title>
   <para>On the left hand side of Cantata's main window are the <quote>views</quote>. These are used to list you music files, etc. Most of these can be configured to display their contents either as a list or tree:
      <orderedlist>
          <listitem><para><quote>List</quote> The view only shows items at the same level - e.g. Artists, or Albums by an artist, etc. Clicking on an item will cause the navigation to go to the next level.</para></listitem>
     <listitem><para><quote>Tree</quote> The view can show all levels, each level listeted underneath its parent.</para></listitem>
     <listitem><para><quote>Icon/List</quote> The view shows the top level as a grid of icons, and lower levels as per List. (Note: This style is only applicable to the Albums view.)</para></listitem>
    </orderedlist>
    You may also configure the size of covers that are displayed in the library and album views.
   </para>
  </sect2>

  <sect2 id="external">
   <title>External</title>
   <para>This section controls how Cantata behaves with external features - such as dislplaying an icon in the system tray.</para>
  </sect2>

  <sect2 id="lyrics">
   <title>Lyrics</title>
   <para>Cantata as a lyrics view, which cna diplay the lyrics of the currently playing song. To obtain these lyrics, Cantata communicates with external websites. This configuration section allows you to control which websites are used, and in which order.</para>
  </sect2>

 </sect1>

 <sect1 id="playqueue">
  <title>The Play Queue</title>
  <para>On the right hand side of the Cantata main window is the <quote>Play Queue</quote>. This shows the list of songs scheduled to be played by MPD. The currently playing track is indicated via an icon.</para>
 </sect1>Wibble

 <sect1 id="views">
  <title>Views</title>
  <para>On the left hand side of the Cantata main window are a set of views.</para>

  <sect2 id="view-library">
   <title>Library</title>
   <para>This view lists all the artists, albums, and tracks in your music library. This is sorted by:
       <orderedlist>
           <listitem><para><quote>Album Artists</quote> Songs can have both an Album Artist tag (such as <quote>Various Artists</quote>) and an Aritst tag. Cantata will use the Album Artist tag if found, otherwise it will fallback to the Artist tag.</para></listitem>
     <listitem><para><quote>Albums</quote></para></listitem>
     <listitem><para><quote>Tracks</quote></para></listitem>
    </orderedlist>
       </para>
  </sect2>

  <sect2 id="view-albums">
   <title>Albums</title>
   <para>This displays all your albums - sorted by <quote>Album Name - Artist</quote></para>
  </sect2>
Wibble
  <sect2 id="view-folders">
   <title>Folders</title>
   <para>This display the folder structure that your music collection is stored in. This can be useful if your files are ordered differently to the way they are tagged.</para>
  </sect2>

  <sect2 id="view-playlists">
   <title>Playlists</title>
   <para></para>
  </sect2>

  <sect2 id="view-streams">
   <title>Streams</title>
   <para>MPD can ....</para>
  </sect2>

  <sect2 id="view-lyrics">
   <title>Lyrics</title>
   <para>Displays the lyrics of the currently playing track.</para>
  </sect2>

  <sect2 id="view-info">
   <title>Info</title>
   <para>Displays either Arrtist, or Album, information about the currently playing track. This information is retreived via the mobile version of wikipedia.</para>
  </sect2>

  <sect2 id="view-serverinfo">
   <title>Server Info</title>
   <para>Displays MPD statistics and information.</para>
  </sect2>

  <sect2 id="view-devices">
   <title>Devices</title>
   <para>Lists any plugged in media devices. Currently Cantata only supports devices that can be communicated with via either UMS (USB Mass Storage) or MTP (Music Trasnfer Protocol). If our device can use both UMS and MTP, then it is recommened to use UMS - as currently MTP can be very slow.</para>
  </sect2>
 </sect1>

 <sect1 id="mediadevices">
  <title>Copying Music To/From Media Devices</title>
  <para>Wibble</para>
   <sect2 id="mediadevices-config">
    <title>Device Configuration</title>
    <para>Wibble</para>
  </sect2>
 </sect1>

 <sect1 id="organizefiles">
  <title>File Organizer</title>
  <para>This dialog allows you to organize your files as per their tags.</para>
 </sect1>

 <sect1 id="edittags">
  <title>Tag Editor</title>
  <para>Usig this dialog you can update the tags contained within your music files. If multiple files have been selected, then the <quote>All tracks</quote></para> entry will allow you to update certain fields for all files.
 </sect1>

 <sect1 id="replaygaincalc">
  <title>ReplayGain Analyzer</title>
  <para>When playing music, MPD can read the replaygain tags within your files, and adjust the playbacl volumne accordingly. For this to work, your files need to actually contain these tags. This dialog will scan each of your selected files, and present you a list of the results. You can then have these written back to your files.</para>
 </sect1>
</article>
